Slide 1: 
My name is Nicolaj
We are group 830, consisting of Daniel, Ignacio, Kris, Simon and me. 

I will start this presentation by going through the agenda, then giving a introduction to the idea of the project. 

Slide 2: 
Water distribution networks is a necessary infrastructure that can be found all over the world. 
Water distribution networks requires a lot of energy, in the U.S. alone 4% of the national energy consumption is used on moving and treating water or wastewater.

Due to the later years focus on renewable energy, the available energy and thereby the prices of electricity is fluctuating. Furthermore the user preferences result in fluctuations. 

Slide 3: 
This fluctuation in available power and electricity prices can be utilized by introduction a water tower. Then a lot of power is available, the wind i blowing a lot, the WTN can be controlled to fill the water tower, so water is stored for a later time then less power is available. 

This requires a advance controller that ensure satisfying performance. 

slide 4: 
The leads to "Problem formulation"

Slide 5: 
For the purpose of this project a test setup have be available at the university. This test setup is a 1:20 downscaled version of a real water distribution system and a simplified version of it can be seen of this figure. 

Here the PMA, PMA pumps, Main pumps, WT, Ground reservoir and interconnecting pipes can be seen. 

Slide 6: 

As mentioned the system consists of pipes, pumps, valves and the WT. A common thing for these components is that they all have to terminals (in/out). Therefore a model is derived of this components that describe the pressure drop across each component. 

Slide 7: 

The complete component model can be seen here. 

Here it can be seen that the pips consists of a resistive term due to surface and form friction, a term due to elevation and an inertia term.  
The valve depends on the flow and the opening degree of the valve
The pump depend on the flow and the rotational speed. 
The WT is a constant term.

Slide 8: 

Now that a model is made for all components, we need a way to describe how they are put together. 
This is done using graph theory. Here its possible to describe which components connect to each other. 
The graph is made to it describe pressure drop across edges 

From the graph it is possible to make a spanning tree that describe the system but without cycles. The edges that are taken out for the graph to obtain this is called the cords. 

From this we can use kirchhoffs laws to do calculations on the network. 